We cannot express to you baptism candidates around the world how much of a privilege it is for us to share in this occasion with you.
You are following through on the most important decision you've ever made to make it known publicly that you have dedicated your life to God.
We know your situation is very.
Some of you candidates were raised knowing about Jehovah, but you had to develop your own personal relationship with him.
Others of you may be taking this step after learning about Jehovah more recently, but whatever your circumstances, likely it was a journey.
A figurative road you had to travel to get to this point.
In fact, the Bible also compares true worship to a road, a path, or a walkway that has to be traveled.
In Acts 9 verse 2, as the first century Christian congregation was being established, Jesus disciples used the term the way to designate their newly established form of worship.
They understood that as baptized Christians, they were walking on a new path and every aspect of their lives was involved.
And that's going to be the case for you as well.
In fact, note how the Bible describes this. Turn with me please to the book of Ephesians.
And know what is stated in Ephesians chapter 4 and will read verses 22 through 24.
There it says, you were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct and that is being corrupted according to its deceptive desires.
And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude.
And you put on the new personality that was created according to God's will in true righteousness and loyalty.
So like the first century Christians, you have come to know the truth about Jehovah.
And the things you've learned has led you to become baptism candidates.
Like all of God's people, you've done as verse 22 states to put away the old personality.
But there in verse 23, we must also continue to be made new in our dominant mental attitude.
This involves our thoughts, what will allow our mind to dwell on.
Now you note the footnote for that verse indicates this term could also be rendered as the force actuating our mind.
Or literally translate it to the spirit of your mind.
In the English language, perhaps you've heard someone say that they are in good spirits.
Or you've heard someone described as being mean spirit it.
Well, that's a description of one's dominant mental attitude.
One's thoughts and motivations.
It's what moves us to act the way that we do.
Our goal as baptized servants of Jehovah is to gain a dominant mental attitude that aligns and is in harmony with God's thoughts.
Now that won't always be easy.
It takes time and a lot of effort.
Those who walk in the way of peace often encounter trials.
And to stay on that road, we must be willing to make sacrifices.
Like some of those first century Christians, we may have to endure direct persecution.
But if we continue to walk in Jehovah's way, we're going to be happy.
And Jehovah is going to bless us.
At Luke chapter 1 verse 79, he assures us that he will guide our feet in the way of peace.
That's a comforting thought, isn't it?
So we're excited.
We're excited that you baptism candidates have undertaken this journey.
And know that you have some eight and a half million other witnesses on this road with you.
And today, it is our honor and privilege to welcome you.
To welcome you to Jehovah's way of peace and the road leading off into life.
As we go through our discussion today, we're going to answer three questions.
First, why is it important that we do not give up on walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
Second, how does walking in Jehovah's way bring us peace?
And third, what can we do to continue walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
Well, let's address our first question.
Why is it important that we do not give up in walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
And I answer that, let's turn please to 2 Corinthians chapter 4.
And we'll note 2 Corinthians chapter 4 verses 16 through 18.
There it reads, therefore, we do not give up.
But even if the man we are outside is wasting away, certainly the man we are inside is being renewed from day to day.
For though the tribulation is momentary and light, it works out for us a glory that is of more and more surpassing greatness and is everlasting.
While we keep our eyes not on the things seen, but on the things unseen.
For the things seen are temporary, but the things unseen are everlasting.
Do you see why we can't give up?
It's because being one of Jehovah's Witnesses requires that we remain active and persevere in the way of peace.
You dear candidates have not given up in your efforts to please Jehovah and to qualify to become part of His people.
And why is that?
It's because of your love for Him.
And you know that any trials and obstacles you face now are momentary and light
when compared to an eternity in God's new world.
Today you will enter into a special relationship with Jehovah God.
So don't let anyone or anything jeopardize that relationship.
Let it be something that you cherish because that relationship is everlasting.
So keep walking in Jehovah's way of peace.
Focus on what it means to have Him as a friend, to have Him guiding your steps.
If you don't give up, then despite any trials you face, you will continue to enjoy Jehovah's blessings.
And we're confident that you can do so.
But to highlight how this can be done.
At this time, we're pleased to introduce Sister Endira Alfonso.
Sister Alfonso was baptized in 2006 and now serves with her husband as Bethel family members in Warwick.
Sister Alfonso, can you tell us a little about your journey, how you became associated with Jehovah's Witnesses?
Yes, I was born in Cuba. My mom and I moved to the United States when I was nine.
Even though I was young, I felt it was important to look for God.
So whenever we moved, I would visit the local churches in the area, even getting baptized in a number of them.
When I was 11, my mom let me move in with my aunt, who was one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And from there, she asked my mom if I could study with a pioneer sister from her congregation, and my mom agreed.
Well, nice to see that even at a young age, you had a spiritual need.
So during this time leading up to your baptism as one of Jehovah's Witnesses, did you encounter any trials that threatened to make you give up?
Yes, I did. I made changes very quickly. I stopped celebrating holidays, stopped praying to idols.
But these changes were very strange to my mom, just difficult for her to understand.
She really was afraid I was being brainwashed.
So after studying for several months, she had me moved back in with her, which meant the end of my studies and no more attending meetings.
It wasn't long before my association was affecting my speech and my behavior.
I found myself easily influenced to even celebrate my birthday again.
I could feel I was moving further away from Jehovah instead of closer to him.
I'm sorry to hear that sister Alfonso.
So what helped you not to give up and to go on walking in the way of peace?
What helped me was this scripture in Matthew 1037, where Jesus said,
whoever has greater affection for father or mother than for me is not worthy of me.
I realized that a peaceful relationship with Jehovah might mean no peace with my family.
But I knew that if I were to ever gain my mom, I had to walk with Jehovah the right way and not give up.
So one night I prayed to him, crying for forgiveness and asking for his help.
Until my surprise a few days later, without any explanation, my mom had me moved back in with my aunt.
So I resumed my Bible studies.
And after a year later, at the age of 15, I got baptized.
Jehovah clearly heard and answered your prayer.
Since then, have you seen continued evidence of Jehovah's guidance?
A good friend helped me to adjust the way I was communicating with my mom.
So one day I called her and expressed to her, how much I truly appreciate and love her.
I didn't want us to be distant anymore.
I explained to her that my love for her had never changed, but my love for Jehovah had come first.
So that conversation was a turning point for us.
Now we have had many positive discussions and she's much more understanding of my decision.
Seeing Jehovah's guidance in my life makes me determined to continue walking in his way of peace.
Thank you so much, Sister Alfonso.
We appreciate your faithful example and comments.
Well, let's address our second point.
How does walking in Jehovah's way bring us peace?
To answer this, we're going to compare the path or journey you've taken on the road to life
with a literal road or walkway.
And in making this comparison, we find a number of similarities.
First, both roads have boundaries, a purpose, and a destination.
Let's start with that first one, boundaries.
On a literal road, we may see yield or do not interest signs, guard rails on the side of the road,
or lines on the road to help us stay in our lane.
Well, those are boundaries.
And those boundaries are there for our protection.
Because if we step outside of them, we risk getting hurt or lost.
It would be great if we could tell you that as you continue on the road to life after your baptism,
we would love to say that the rest of your journey is smooth sailing.
You'll have nothing but safe travels.
But the reality is that you will face challenges and test of your faith.
The devil will make sure of it.
He will make sure that you are confronted with temptations.
He wants to do whatever he can to damage your special relationship with Jehovah.
But we're confident that you can succeed.
You can be successful and avoid danger if you remain within the boundaries of Jehovah's way of peace.
How do you stay within those boundaries?
By continuing to learn about Jehovah's laws and principles, and obeying them.
That obedience will not only protect you, but it will give you inner peace.
Peace that comes from having a clean conscience.
The next similarity between a literal road and being on the road to life that we'll discuss is having a purpose.
When we travel on a literal road, our plan usually is not to get on the road and just stand still.
To become stationary or watch other people or vehicles go by.
No, we're there for a reason.
The purpose of the road is to enable movement, to help us get from one place to another.
Well, in a similar sense, being on Jehovah's way of peace allows you to move forward, to make continual spiritual progress.
And, of course, there are many ways that we can make spiritual advancement.
One important way that all Christians can do so is in cultivating spiritual qualities.
This is so pleasing to Jehovah.
Consider with me, for example, Galatians chapter 6, verse 10.
Notice what's mentioned here, Galatians chapter 6, verse 10.
It's as soven as long as we have the opportunity.
Let us work what is good toward all, but especially toward those related to us in the faith.
So one way to advance spiritually is to look for ways to do good things for others, both inside and outside, the congregation.
This pandemic has afforded us many opportunities to do this.
We've been able to call and check on others, and distribute food or supplies when needed.
And think of what our brothers have done, time and again, to assist others during natural disasters.
So take a minute and think about your local area.
How can you work what is good toward all?
Are there ones that need assistance getting food or running errands?
Is there someone who could use a good word of encouragement to cheer them up?
Do we know individuals who have lost loved ones in death, with whom we could share words of comfort?
Or maybe simply provide a listening ear?
You see, by displaying spiritual qualities, qualities such as kindness, compassion, hospitality, generosity,
you're going to feel deeply rewarded for doing these things.
And you're pleasing Jehovah, because you will show that your purpose for being on the road to life is not just to save yourself, but to help others.
And there was a third similarity between being on a literal road and being on the road to life.
In both cases, we have a destination that we want to reach.
Traveling on a literal path will eventually take you to your destination.
And as a witness of Jehovah, our journey, our walk on this figurative road will lead us to our destination.
The goal of enjoying a peaceful friendship with God forever.
Although we long for that time in God's new world, even now we can experience the blessings and inner peace that come from a life of service to Jehovah.
We now have the privilege to speak with Sister Gloria Hurd.
Sister Hurd has been baptized for over 70 years and has enjoyed a rich spiritual life and special full-time service with her husband,
but the Samuel heard of the governing body.
Sister Hurd, you've had many rich spiritual blessings, and we know that you've encountered challenges along the way.
But as you've carried out these assignments through the years, walking in Jehovah's way of peace,
how have you managed to enjoy greater inner peace?
I learned, Brother Turner, that if Jehovah gives you an assignment, he will give you what you need to fulfill it.
We learned and really benefited from the traveling overseas and their wives.
It was such a privilege to serve along with these faithful brothers and sisters,
and several of them had served me and my family when I was very young.
So to see their faithfulness, to see their happiness, and to see that they really had inner peace really benefited me.
I learned from that, and I wanted to follow their example.
That help from others can be so valuable. How else have you managed?
I've enjoyed inner peace too from praying to Jehovah a lot.
Many times we had very little money or no money, but we never missed a meal and we never missed any theocratic event.
We learned that having no money is not an obstacle to Jehovah.
He heard our prayers, he answered them, and it was if the blessing sometimes just fell out of heaven.
Prayer can be so powerful. Thank you for sharing that.
But now, how has walking in Jehovah's way of peace helped you to have peace with others?
I worked and lived with many sisters, and they all had different personalities.
So I learned that I had to apply Ruma's 12-18, where it says,
as far as it depends upon me, be peaceable with all men and women.
So I learned that I have to adjust my personality sometimes to keep peace.
This happened very often, but one time we moved in with a sister on Tuesday morning, and something I said upset her very much.
She got very angry.
Well, I decided not to pursue the issue, because I had to live with her for a week.
And I just decided to let her see by my conduct that I could never have met what she thought.
So as the week by, the days went by, the tension lessened, and by Monday, when we left, we were the best of friends.
And she gave me a big hug, and nothing more was said about the subject.
Well, it sounds like you handled that beautifully sisterhood. Your spiritual qualities were evident.
Well, finally, how has walking in Jehovah's way of peace helped you have peace with God?
Well, when you see Jehovah acting your behalf over and over and over again, it makes you feel that you have his approval.
Now that Sam and I are in our senior years, we feel he has given us the desire of our heart by allowing us to serve at Bethel, which had been our goal for many years.
And I know that as long as I stay faithful to Jehovah, he will continue to grant me inner peace.
And we have that confidence as well. Thank you so much, sisterhood. We deeply appreciate your comments and your encouraging expressions.
Well, let's now address our final point.
What can we do to continue walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
Well, let's go back to our illustration of the road.
On a literal road, travelers may need to make adjustments in response to changing road conditions or bad weather.
Similarly, as you go on walking in the way of peace, you will need to readjust your actions and thinking from time to time.
Recently, a circuit overseer shared an interesting point regarding our thoughts and attitudes on matters.
He said that they could either serve as a prison or a passport.
A prison in that our thoughts and actions can confine or restrict us or a passport in that they can take us where we need to be.
Well, right now, we need to be and stay on this road to life.
So we want to make sure that any needed adjustments are made in our thoughts and our actions so that we're not confined or restricted in making spiritual progress.
Well, what might be some areas that we'll need to make adjustments?
Notice, please, Paul's words in 2 Corinthians chapter 13, and we'll read 2 Corinthians chapter 13 verse 11.
Paul says, finally, brothers, continue to rejoice, to be readjusted, to be comforted, to think in agreement, to live peaceably, and the God of love and of peace will be with you.
Did you notice three areas in this verse where Paul states we can make adjustments?
First, he says, continue to rejoice.
We can lose our peace and joy if we become overwhelmed by the anxieties of life.
So in order to rejoice, can you make it a goal to focus on things that bring joy rather than sadness?
So if you're not feeling well or coping with chronic pain, you can focus on God's promise when no one will say, I am sick.
If you're facing beliefs or opposition for your beliefs, focus on the fact that we're part of a brotherhood, a brotherhood that supports and prays for us, and arrangements are in place to keep us spiritually strong.
If you're discouraged by world events, you can rejoice in the fact that you have a hope for the future, and we know how this all ends.
We know that better times are ahead.
The point is, don't let negative thoughts restrict or limit your progress.
Instead, make the needed adjustments so that you can move forward and continue to rejoice.
Not another area for readjustment, Paul mentions in verse 11.
There he says, continue to think in agreement.
There were members of the congregation back in the first century that were promoting apostate ideas.
Others were introducing controversial ideas that were not directly unscriptural, but that were divisive.
This resulted in bickering and arguing, arguments, over words, really creating a spiritually unhealthy atmosphere.
What's going to help us to continue to think in agreement?
Remember Paul's words at 2 Timothy 2, 23.
To reject foolish and ignorant debates, knowing that they produce fights.
Of course, we react strongly when facing issues that clearly violate Jehovah's moral laws.
But if no scriptural principle is being violated, we're wise to abstain from promoting our personal opinions.
We want to do all we can to avoid starting or being drawn into disagreements that can disrupt the peace of the congregation.
Now, back in verse 11, a third area where we can make adjustments is continue to live peaceably.
Did you notice from the interview with our sisters what they both did when challenged?
Would face with the challenge that threatened their peace?
They took the matter to Jehovah in prayer.
They reflected on scriptures found in God's Word.
And then they looked to see how they could apply those verses in their particular situation.
It helped them to not only have inner peace, but peace with others as well.
So let your spiritual qualities shine through.
Continue to work on keeping peace, showing those qualities of being loving and generous toward all.
But especially with our close family members, whether they are witnesses or not.
Well, we want to conclude by reminding you baptism candidates that today marks a significant milestone in your journey, in your relationship with Jehovah.
So take the time to appreciate what this day means for you.
We're so proud of all of you.
You will never regret the decision you have made to dedicate your life to Jehovah.
But keep in mind that after today and beyond, the journey is not yet over.
Really it's just the beginning.
So we encourage you to do all you can to stay on the road to life.
Keep in mind the points we consider today.
First, do not give up on walking in Jehovah's way of peace.
Your life depends on it.
Allow Jehovah to guide your steps.
Second, stay within the boundaries on the road to life.
Remember, you're walking with a purpose, and that will lead you to your destination.
Peaceful friendship with Jehovah forever.
And finally, keep making any needed adjustments in your thoughts, your attitude and actions,
so that you can maintain peace with Jehovah and peace with others.
If you continue to do these things, not only will you have peace,
but as the last part of Second Corinthians 13 and 11 says,
the God of love and of peace will be with you.
May you always remember that promise, which Jehovah makes to those who go on walking in the way of peace.